# Integrating-CRUD-Application-with-CSV-Files-using-CLI-in-Python

Python is a popular programming language known for its simplicity and ease of use. One of the most common applications of Python is for creating CRUD application to a wide range of use cases. This is a simple CRUD application from scratch and implementing its functionality without relying on external libraries. This is a Command-Line Interface (CLI) that interacts with a database, in this case, CSV File as the storage file format which is a lightweight and accessible used for storing tabular data, or information presented in a table with rows and columns.
The Create operation allows users to create new records in the database, typically by filling out a form with relevant fields. The Read operation allows users to view records in the database, often through a search function or by browsing through a list of records. The Update operation allows users to modify existing records in the database, typically by accessing a form pre-populated with the existing data. The Delete operation allows users to remove records from the database, often by selecting a record and confirming the deletion.
This can be useful for managing and manipulating amounts of personal patient data by providing an easy-to-use interface which is customized to meet specific requirements or additional features such as data validation.
Overall, this is just a small start of understanding the basic concepts of creating CRUD application for beginners.

Note: I have an article on Medium that you can surf to read the complete explanation at https://medium.com/@arighymoch/integrating-crud-application-with-csv-files-using-cli-in-python-c3c343d54b0f
